---
layout:     post
title:      Python 第一章
date:       2016-07-23 22:20:41
update:     2017-02-13 22:45:56
author:     AlphaJx
category:   Learning Python
tags:
    - Learning Python
---

[TOC]

* **help(S.replace)**
**dir()** lists variables assigned in the caller’s scope
dir(S) a list of all the attributes available for any object passed to it
running help on **str.method**
* **调试使用命令行**
    * \#可以连续输入语句；
    * import要调试的文件
    * 不用print,直接输出

* **命令行运行python文件，导出内容(利用流定向)**：
    * python script.py > ans.txt

* **input的使用**
    * 在命令行中暂停
    * 输出提示：input("Press Enter to exit")
    *利用重定向输入数据：python script.py < input.txt

* **each module is a self-contained namespace**

* **运行python模块的方式1：**
    * python命令行中，**import** file1.py之后，修改file1.py，需要**reload** file1.py，用import无效

* **运行python模块的方式2：`exec(open('script1.py').read())`**
    * without having to import and later reload.
    * has the potential to silently overwrite variables you may currently be using

* Traditional introductions to programming often stress its three pillars of **sequence (“Do this, then that”), selection (“Do this if that is true”), and repetition (“Do this many times”)**. Python has tools in all three categories, along with some for  efinition—of functions and classes. These themes may help you organize your thinking early on, but they are a bit artificial and simplistic. Expressions such as comprehensions, for example, are both repetition and selection; some of these terms have other meanings in Python; and many later concepts won’t seem to fit this mold at all. In Python, the more strongly unifying principle is **objects**, and what we can do with them.
传统的编程语言有三种模式：顺序、条件、循环。python中有很多的这些实现，但有一些不一样的，后面讲的一些概念不符合这三种模式。而对象模型是python中更通用的模型。

* Hierachy
    1. Programs are composed of modules.
    2. Modules contain statements.
    3. Statements contain expressions.
    4. Expressions create and process objects.

* 在python中一切都是object。除了自建、引入的object，大部分内建object拥有特殊的创建形式。比如list，items = [1, 2].

* strings are sequences of one-character strings
* strings are immutable in Python
* numbers, strings, and tuples are immutable; lists, dictionaries, and sets are not
* The bytearray supports in-place changes for text, but only for text whose characters are all at most 8-bits wide
* start with the letter r and are useful for strings like directory paths on Windows (e.g., r'C:\text\new').
supports a raw string literal that turns off the backslash escape mechanism.
* every Python tool that scans an object from left to right uses the iteration
protocol
* Tuples: immutable
* a special placeholder object called None


# str and byte
1. In Python 3.X, the normal str string handles Unicode text (including ASCII, which is
just a simple kind of Unicode); a distinct bytes string type represents raw byte values
(including media and encoded text);

2. In Python 2.X, the normal str string handles both 8-bit character strings (including
ASCII text) and raw byte values; a distinct unicode string type represents Unicode text;

3. text strings, which are the normal string in 3.X and Unicode in 2.X. byte strings, which are bytes in 3.X and the normal string in 2.X

4. All these escapes can be used to embed actual Unicode code-point ordinal-value integers in text strings. By contrast, byte strings use only \x hexadecimal escapes to embed the encoded form of text.
```
>>> '\u00A3', '\u00A3'.encode('latin1'), b'\xA3'.decode('latin1')
output: ('£', b'\xa3', '£')
```

# list comprehension
1. it’s not just for making lists today. For example, enclosing a comprehension in parentheses can also be used to create **generators**.
2. they can be used to iterate over **any iterable object**.
3. They also work on any type that is a **sequence** in Python, as well as some types that **are not**.（不管是否是序列，都能使用列表推导式。）
4. The list comprehension, though, and related functional programming tools like map and filter, will often run **faster** than a for loop today on some types of code (perhaps even twice as fast).


# Decimal and Fraction
```
>>> import decimal # Decimals: fixed precision
>>> d = decimal.Decimal('3.141')
>>> d + 1
Decimal('4.141')
>>> decimal.getcontext().prec = 2
>>> decimal.Decimal('1.00') / decimal.Decimal('3.00')
Decimal('0.33')
>>> from fractions import Fraction # Fractions: numerator+denominator
>>> f = Fraction(2, 3)
>>> f + 1
Fraction(5, 3)
>>> f + Fraction(1, 2)
Fraction(7, 6)
```

# set
unordered collections of unique and immutable objects
```
>>> X = set('spam') # Make a set out of a sequence in 2.X and 3.X
>>> Y = {'h', 'a', 'm'} # Make a set with set literals in 3.X and 2.7
>>> X, Y # A tuple of two sets without parentheses
({'m', 'a', 'p', 's'}, {'m', 'a', 'h'})
```

# file
files provide an iterator that automatically reads line by line in for loops and other contexts:（更好的读取方式）
```
>>> for line in open('data.txt'): print(line)
```
python 3 perform Unicode encoding and decoding automatically when writing and reading data


# Type and Object
```
# In Python 2.X:
>>> type(L) # Types: type of L is list type object
<type 'list'>
>>> type(type(L)) # Even types are objects
<type 'type'>
# In Python 3.X:
>>> type(L) # 3.X: types are classes, and vice versa
<class 'list'>
>>> type(type(L)) # See Chapter 32 for more on class types
<class 'type'>
```
```
>>> if type(L) == type([]): # Type testing, if you must...
print('yes')
yes
>>> if type(L) == list: # Using the type name
print('yes')
yes
>>> if isinstance(L, list): # Object-oriented tests
print('yes')
yes
```
By checking for specific types in your code, you effectively break its flexibility—you limit it to
working on just one type. Without such tests, your code may be able to work on a
whole range of types.
总结：python追求的polymorphism，把type当成类使用，不关心type是什么。


repr (and the
default interactive echo) produces results that look as though they were code

str (and
the print operation) converts to a typically more user-friendly format if available

a str for general use, and a repr with extra details





